This repository contains the implementation of a Fake News Detection model. The model uses deep learning techniques, combining FastText and a CNN-LSTM hybrid model . Initially, the model had an accuracy of 89%, but after adding LDA and an attention mechanism, the accuracy improved to 91%, with an F1-score of 91%.

 Project Overview:
The goal of this project is to build a strong model to detect fake news in text. The model uses a combination of FastText for word classification and CNN-LSTM for text classification. The project includes steps like data preprocessing, feature extraction, and evaluating the model’s performance.

Dataset:
We used the WELFake dataset, which contains news articles labeled as fake or real.

Model Description:
1. Preprocessing Steps
2. FastText Supervised Word Classification : FastText was applied to learn word representations from the dataset.
3. The word embeddings generated by FastText were used as input for the CNN-LSTM model.

Results:
The model achieved the following metrics:
- Accuracy: 91.5%
- F1-Score: 91%

These results show that combining FastText word embeddings with CNN-LSTM works well for detecting fake news.

 How to Run the Project:
1. Clone the repository:
  
  	 https://github.com/anilkrmandal/FakeNewsDetecctor.git
  	 cd FakeNewsDetecctor
   

2. Open the `.ipynb` file in Colab, Jupyter, or VS Code, and run all cells.


 Our Experiments:

We tested different models to improve accuracy. 

For the unsupervised FastText model, we added LDA with an attention mechanism and LIME, which increased the accuracy to 93%.

Here are the results for machine learning models with LIME:

- LDA : Coherence score = 0.38, Perplexity = -8.7078
- Random Forest : Precision 0.9302, Recall 0.9358, F1-score 0.9330
- SVM : Precision 0.9064, Recall 0.8992, F1-score 0.9028
- Decision Tree : Precision 0.8565, Recall 0.8794, F1-score 0.8678
- Logistic Regression : Precision 0.9040, Recall 0.9008, F1-score 0.9024
- Ensemble Model : Accuracy 0.9092, Precision 0.9349, Recall 0.8829, F1-score 0.9082
- AdaBoost : Accuracy 0.8677, Precision 0.8750, Recall 0.8633, F1-score 0.8691
